# Image - Denoising Research Abstract

Digital photography takes center stage in many different fields, ranging from medical imaging and remote sensing to entertainment and social media. Captured images inevitably suffer from degradation due to multiple factors. Images that get exchanged may suffer from further degradation 
which may appear in the form of noise. The process of de-noising plays a vital role in maintaining the integrity of visual information used in the aforementioned fields. Our research will explore various methods to cure that noise. Starting with the traditional or linear methods, we find that their simplicity is hindered by losing some of the image’s sharpness. That leads us to exploring methods that depend directly on PDEs in their modeling, like the Perona-Malik model and the total variation algorithm. We also aim to explore the usage of PDEs in the optimization of convoluted neural networks which are used in de-noising (DnCNNs) through the Stochastic Gradient Descent with momentum (SGDM) optimizer. Using DnCNNs allowed us a great deal of flexibility, as we’ve managed to tackle issues that hindered the aforementioned techniques like: poor test phase 
optimization, manual parameter settings, and specific denoising models. We’ve also managed to expand our models to both greyscale and RGB images. Our models present high levels of performance for inputs outside the training dataset. In one case, the PSNR and SSIM value were increased by 51.41% and 216.12%, respectively.